# pinewood_interview_refractor
This readme.md will be used as a log to demostrate the thought process in the refactoring exercise.

## Step 0 Introduction
I need to know what is the project doing before writing anything.
I found the project has high similarity with a .net mvc style architecture.
Without second thought I ordered the class files with this .net mvc style file tree.

It now make sense with the following data path:

Entry Point `PinnacleClient.cs`

Workflow for "Create Part Invoice"  
(Invocation) `PinnacleClient::CreatePartInvoice`  
-> (Controller) `PartInvoiceController::CreatePartInvoice`  
-> (dependent repository/services) `CustomerRepositoryDB` / `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` / `PartInvoiceRepositoryDB`  
-> (result)
`CreatePartInvoiceResult`

From this architecutre pattern (MVC),
it suffices to perform unit tests on `PartInvoiceController`  

It is clear that the dependency to a concrete database at `CustomerRepositoryDB` / `PartInvoiceRepositoryDB` and current status on `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` are the main reasons of failing to unit test.

## Step 1 - DB-bound repositories
In order to tackle the issue, I would like to have the ability to inject these dependency while doing tests.

For `CustomerRepositoryDB` / `PartInvoiceRepositoryDB`, 
I would like to inject behaviour of certain methods when the test is carried out.
For a task with expected effort of around an hour, 
and to avoid pollute the code base with more implementation of repositories,
using Mocking Frameworks [MOQ](#moq) could be a better choice.
To override method behavior,
they need to be virtual.
For the sake of simplicity,
I created Interfaces `ICustomerRepository` / `IInvoiceRepository`  for them.
Then I updated `PartInvoiceController` so I can inject an implementation at construction time on this controller.  

In reality one may choose to have a proper local database injected so subsequent CRUD could also be unit tested.

## Step 2 - WCF Service Model Client
For `PartAvailabilityServiceClient`,
which is defined in `PartAvailabilityService.cs` and I am restricted from modifying it,
I am lucky enough that it is already providing an interface `IPartAvailabilityService`,
so it should suffice to provide an mocking implementation to `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` to test.

The "using" statement push creation of `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` to run time,
so it need some twist to this line of code.
Factory Pattern is a perfect candidate for this situation,
so I created a factory `PartAvailabilityServiceClientFactory` for `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` and hoped it will just work out.
Unluckily `IPartAvailabilityService` do not inherit `IDisposable` so it cannot be used directly with the "using" statement.
And I turned into Google for solution.
The key mentioned in the stackoverflow question is exactly making use of the partial class extensibility to wrap the Service Client `PartAvailabilityServiceClient` with new Interface which contains both `IPartAvailabilityService` and `IDisposable`.
I put all these new interfaces and partial class interface inheritance in the `PartAvailabilityServiceClientFactory` class file.
It might not be that proper but I don't have to mess with the auto-generated Service Client code this way.

## Step 3 - Fixing Test Results
At First I think it suffices to compare `CreatePartInvoiceResult` by `Assert.AreEqual(result, new CreatePartInvoiceResult(true));`
Unluckily it does not work out as I forgotten to override the `Equals` for object level comparison.
(Have been working on js for too long)

## Conclusion
After all these efforts I have made a unit test.
All it smoke out is the missing null check on line 39.
I haven't show much OO patterns in this case.
Anyway it is a good exercise to have my memory refreshed.

## References
[Moq](https://github.com/Moq/moq4/wiki/Quickstart)
[Using and Diposing of WCF clients](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41962863/unit-test-service-and-mock-autogenerated-wcf-client-proxy)